<h3>Book and Code as a Package</h3>
The ePubChef project has at its heart a model in which the book text and code to manipulate the text  into an EPUB exist as one portable object. Imagine the text of a book being wrapped in a box of code. This package can be moved from one computer to another, or sit on a shelf (file system) for years. When one wants to use it one can take it off the shelf, and execute the code and an EPUB will be created. 

The book and code package is stand-alone. One does not need to worry about incompatible software upgrades, or software companies going out of business. 

Of course there are some requirements for the software to be executed. These have been kept to an absolute minimum. EPubChef requires only the Python programming language and two python modules - that is all. Python runs the same way on all major operating systems. Python is a workhorse of coders and scientists and is in a solid position to thrive for many years to come.

<h3>Open Source, but not free</h3>
At ePubChef we realize that we don't have all the answers to questions in the eBook publishing industry. We want others to take this code and the templates and improve on them. We want authors or those who support them to own the code that produces their eBook.

EPubChef is open source code, but authors will pay a small fee per title to use ePubChef to fund ongoing support and development. This is vital for longevity of the project. Authors investing time and effort into using the ePubChef will know it is a long term investment with a large community behind it rather than a small company which may not exist in a few years.

<h3>Small is Beautiful</h3>

>>>"Do only one thing, and do it very well."
<br/>
EPubChef is not a word processor, it does not check spelling or automatically back-up your files. It does not do marketing or cover design. It doesn't include a thesaurus or links to Wikipedia. It won't improve your writing skills in any way. What it will convert your writing into a high quality EPUB with ease. It will allow you to do that whenever you want.

EPubChef will work happily as part of a writers environment. There are many great text editors out there. For example, Notepad++ checks spelling and allows the author to make changes across all the files of a book at once. One can of course use MS-Word and then remove all propitiatory formatting and split the document into chapters before using ePubChef. Dropbox (or similar) makes backups of files and allows an author to write mostly on a PC, switching to a tablet or other device when he feel like it. Grammarly.com works great with ePubChef as the scene or chapter files can be easily checked for grammar issues.